one of the issues that comes up again
and again in debates debates pertaining
to veganism debates pertaining to
politics feminism anything else worth
debating really is how precisely we use
language the precision with which we use
language to a large extent shapes our
ability to discuss and dispute concepts
in a way that is productive may seem
like a needlessly for boosts statement I
just made but the problem is when we use
words in a way that's indistinct or
unclear we don't know what we're talking
about we don't know what we don't know
what we're winning or what we're losing
in a debate in a real sense so just now
in the live stream I was commenting
about the word exploitation and I have a
real problem with the way people use
exploitation so even though I have had
debates on my channel or discussions
about how much I dislike Jeff Nelson and
his content and I dislike Nina and Randa
and their content I have never accused
Jeff Nelson of exploiting his daughters
one reason I would not do that is that
it's just so vague what do we mean by
the concept of exploitation in that
context some people have recently been
accusing me of exploiting someone else's
name but actually I've actually had that
recently even on the the videos about
Game of Thrones the Song of Ice and Fire
oh you're exploiting this other person
by criticizing them in your video or
something like oh okay what what does
exploitation mean if my using the name
of another person whom I'm critiquing or
disagreeing with if that's exploitation
you know we can't even debate it it is
simply too unclear so one of the
problems I have with what I'd call you
know warmed-over Marxists 21st century
Marxist Marxist who after the fall after
the collapse of the Soviet Union are
still repping Marxism is that they tend
to lean so heavily on words that nobody
can define and the day themselves do not
use you know with any precision um quite
some time ago I said that I would have a
book of you coming up for a book titled
animal oppression and human violence by
David a nee Bert or need air or nee Bert
I
he's probably any bear I don't know um
look guys that that book review is not
gonna be forthcoming yeah I tried to buy
the book on paper that didn't work out
if I owned the book on paper I would
probably force myself to read a larger
percentage of it instead I couldn't get
it on paper I ended up getting a copy as
a PDF or not even whatever in eBook
about no electronic copy and I gotta
tell you from my perspective this is
really pretty terrible the quality of
writing and again just this one issue
the use of language to me is intolerably
bad so I'm gonna read you like I don't
know five sentences here and you'll see
what I'm talking about so this is a
section of his conclusion basically
addressed to transcending the capitalist
system now already what does the word
transcend meet in this context I've had
to talk about transcending things and
transcendental experiences in the cons
in the context of Buddhist philosophy in
the context of economics
what does transcend really mean why are
you using a word that is so vague and
misleading as transcend it's probably
because you don't want to use words like
abolish or even revolution or something
which have a much more definite meaning
anyway so he's saying in his conclusion
here as we have seen dumbest equation so
the mess equation is the word he uses
instead of domestication to make it
clear that he disapproves of the
domestication of animals as we've seen
domestication fueled the rise of
capitalism and many of its most
deplorable colonial and imperialist
practices have shaped the contemporary
world today he says capitalism promotes
domestic creation on an enormous level
tens of billions of animals are tortured
and brutally killed every year to
produce growing profits for 21st century
elites who hold investments in the
corporate equivalents of Genghis Khan
these new Khan's are the corporate
persons whose ranks include Tyson Foods
ConAgra Smithfield pilgrims pride
Cargill Perdue farms Maple Leaf Foods
United egg producers United poultry
growers association etc Center so you
know
I'm gonna stop there believe it or not
there are many many things I dislike
about the crypto communist and Marxist
approach to politics and life on earth
capitalism itself becomes meaningless if
it's defined so vaguely right capitalism
has to mean something
whatever capitalism is it has to be
contrasted to feudalism it has to be
contrasted to a pre capitalist society
and then we can also contrast it to
non-capitalist social systems such as
communism now all of the claims here
even in this very short couple of
sentences have just read they're
intentionally blurring those lines right
what do you think see it's the
domestication of animals exploitation
domesticate animals was that not a part
of communism was that not a feature of
communism no actually it was just as bad
under communism in some ways even worse
under communism exploitation of domestic
domesticated animals was that not a
feature of feudalism of the you know
traditional pre capitalist economy
before you have the distinctive elements
of cattle no it was a totally integral
in electable part of feudalism whether
you're talking about Europe or Asia even
dime of feudalism in Japan or something
exploitation domesticate animals was
absolutely integral part and now thirdly
if you want to reproach these corporate
leaders you know so the the executive
director of Tyson Foods or they are in
fact not in any way comparable to
Genghis Khan and I find this kind of
verbiage you know truly idiotic and
misleading in a way that's not helpful
to anyone um
Genghis Khan we have some quotations
from Genghis Khan's political philosophy
was one of actively pillaging of people
we are I remember reading a quote from
Genghis Khan that there is nothing more
satisfying than to loot a man's
valuables and to then make love to his
wife Genghis Khan had a very active
philosophy of looting and slaving and
raping a rape on a scale that's now
difficult to fathom and we don't just
have literary
historical sources describing the kind
of mass rape that went on under his
regime or his regimes plural we also DNA
evidence to prove it
he literally changed the face of Asia
because he and his army raped such an
enormous number of people right now
again from a classical Marxist classical
communist perspective Genghis Khan is
not a capitalist figure he represents
what's called primitive accumulation
piracy basically you know it's piracy on
land right this is raping and looting
and pillaging now the executive director
of Tyson Foods does none of these things
and this is really worth appreciating
because it explains why it is that we as
a society are exactly so complacent all
right
so sorry I mean he goes on to say I'll
read another senator quote they display
a pathological single-minded pursuit of
profit that is often more subtle then
but certainly as violent destructive and
ultimately deadly as the practices of
the murderous cons of Eurasia spasso
again Genghis Khan is what he's alluding
to here genghis khan and his successors
know if that were true people would not
be complacent if the executive directors
of Tyson Foods were enslaving people
were murdering people enslaving their
children raping their women stealing
their valuables people would not be
complacent people would be offended in
reality these companies provide people
with relatively well-paying jobs or
anyway the jobs that at least pay
minimum wage and health benefits and a
comfortable life and that's why their
employees make excuses for them um
they're a part of our cushy comfortable
bourgeois decadent Western capitalist
society they're not in any way
comparable to Genghis Khan and if you as
a vegan which is what this book is right
if you're from a vegan perspective want
to try to motivate people try to
stimulate people galvanize people to be
opposed to the corporate interests of
Tyson Foods etc etc Cargill etc etc the
company's the brother that you cannot
possibly do it in this way you
do it by claiming that capitalism is
just as bad as feudalism and that these
corporations are just as bad as a
murderous raping enslaving
pre-capitalist despotism they're not
they're not despotic I'm sorry
the American Soybean Association which
is in his list the United poultry
Growers Association
these are not despotisms these are not
despotic institutions they're not and
the reason why millions of people are
happy with them is that they provide a
service that people value in a service
economy right so now again I've read so
much left-wing propaganda my whole life
my first major university is political
science blah blah blah I'm living in a
communist country right now I was
looking at a book in Chinese on Marxist
philosophy less than an hour ago I'm
probably gonna buy a copy of that book
so that I can practice the vocabulary
used for debating Marxism in Chinese
before I lived in Laos Laos is also very
much communist country etc etc far
left-wing politics and the way that
these arguments are framed is something
that's overly familiar to me
right but mean what is the point and
given this is a book by vegan for vegans
what is the point of framing this
discourse as if our opponents as if the
people were criticizing it the people as
if the industry we want to transform he
is a pathological murderous despotic
regime that's which is actually what
he's saying right now he goes on I only
want to read this okay there are other
I'll read another sentence this shows
you how it Just's
as soon as you've adopted this mentality
of trying to dramatize of trying to
demonize your opponents trying to
dehumanize the people who disagree with
you this is this is the direction it
takes this is not what I don't want to
humanize these people I don't want to
demonize them I don't it's
counterproductive alright so he goes on
to say these and other animals so right
perme these and other actors in the
animal industrial complex including the
World Bank the US Department of
Agriculture
agricultural departments in major
universities the Chicago voted board
raid innumerable advertising and
marketing firms and related enterprises
they exert enormous economic cultural
and political influence to promote the
consumption of meat dairy eggs and
seafood in order to protect the interest
of those who profit from it
contemporary domination of the world by
global capitalist elites is furthered by
corporate friendly so-called free trade
agreements and the World Trade
Organization which has joined the World
Bank etc so you can see this cut it's
not even conspiracy theory it's just
demonizing these people right you know I
was talking to a vegan a few months ago
her father is a member so she's vegan
her father makes his money every day out
of this you know animal exploiting
industry what have you called the meat
packing industry the slaughterhouse
industry etc right these are normal
human beings I have met and interviewed
you know former employees of
slaughterhouses and I have at least one
video talking about that I remember one
video that talks at length about this
conversation I had with a guy and very
often they're happy very often they
think it's a good job working in a
slaughterhouse there are other people on
YouTube you can see former employees of
slaughterhouses who became vegan and now
regard what happens so to us it's very
traumatic and evil I have again I can
remember one video at least I did on
that where I have some clips from other
people's YouTube pages showing them
talking about their experience when they
were working in the in the
slaughterhouse I understand that from a
kind of hackneyed left-wing perspective
they think this is useful they think
that describing these people as
Psychopaths who are carrying out
murderous and violent actions in the
name of profit this psyche
psychopathologies ation of people who
happen disagree they think it's useful
and it's not what's useful is
recognizing their rationality is
recognizing their humanity is
recognizing these people are not
psychopaths they are normal they just
happen to disagree with you they just
happen to accept a set of cultural
values you want to challenge so now
let's move this story forward and
discuss how we as a movement are gonna
get organized to challenge those values
saying that capitalism is equivalent to
poop
primitive accumulation that it's
equivalent to piracy that's equivalent
to Genghis Khan murdering and enslaving
and raping people is useless I know why
he's doing it I know the ideological
reason he's doing I know the whole
hundred and fifty years of this kind of
left-wing tradition but it's not useful
for communists it's not useful for
socialists you know labor organizers and
it's definitely not useful for us as a
you know as a would-be movement veganism
at starting offset so guys this is not a
book review I do not know I mean the
next couple of months will I have the
time to sit back down with this book and
devote more attention to it it's it's
very hard for me to imagine I'd do so so
this is this may be my announcement that
I'm not gonna review this but I find it
very very difficult to read even one
page of this book from my perspective
it's extremely poorly written it's
extremely insincere and the use it makes
of left-wing political concepts is is
totally counterproductive from my
perspective it's not useful for veganism
it's not useful for left-wing politics
etc but with all that having been said I
found about this book in the first place
because of a suggestion from one of my
supporters on patreon thank you for that
I am interested in any fresh
philosophical or political perspective
on veganism as a movement and I mean I
do feel I mean I do feel like in a sense
that that looking at this book has has
enriched my engagement with veganism as
a movement although for me the
enrichment is just another reminder of
how hopeless and fucked-up and pathetic
the world of formal academia has been
for animal rights veganism etc to me
this is just another book where I look
at it and think wow this is even worse
than what we have going on on YouTube
and I mean if you think about it it
makes sense why YouTube is really a very
Socratic medium people come on and make
a video and they respond to criticism if
this kind of perpetually open-ended
dialogue and what I see in this book is
just the most ludicrous ego trip on the
part of the author he starts the book by
wanting to show how the whole tradition
of academic sociology
is bad and evil and wrong because it
treats domestication of animals is a
good thing as part of the positive
progress of society okay well guess who
your audience is it's people like me so
I don't know you could cover that in
about a paragraph unless you're really
interested in seeing this guy kick the
can with the you know the godfathers of
sociology as an academic discipline
which is of no use to anybody and it's
interesting to an incredibly small
number of people in academia I'm not
even a judge that part of the book
whether it's good better and different
and then you get into this kind of you
know fanatical left-wing ideology you it
just seems like who could pissing
contest who can say the most outrageous
thing to demonize people who happened
disagree with you so bring that back
there one last comment in the last
couple days I have had some people you
know disagree with me into it which is
great you always should I'm totally cool
with people criticizing me but what I'm
actually sitting you're willing to have
a debate with them I think they're so
unfamiliar with what I've just been
alluding to you know they tell me I'm a
sociopath I tell me I'm a psychopath
they just scream insults at me and I'm
actually sitting here in live shot like
okay well let's talk about it what do
you what's your actual critique of my
video or what you disagree with and they
can't do it they can't offer a critique
they have no opinion their opinion is
just to dehumanize me to Internet
hominem way suggest that I'm a sociopath
or a psychopath which again is what this
guy does
David niebuhr he does he's saying that
you know whatever the owners of Burger
King are psychopaths which I doubt I
doubt the owner of McDonald's Wendy's or
Tyson Foods as a psychopath I think the
reality we need to face up with in vegan
face up to and veganism these are normal
people they just happen to disagree with
us I think you have to on a profound
level start from the assumption start on
the footing these are normal people who
just happen to disagree with me in a
matter of opinion and now think through
how are we gonna have that that
disagreement how are we gonna disagree
how uh you know express our contrasting
opinions the fact that other vegans so
rarely are capable of even disagreeing
with me that's already a warning and
when I see this kind of holier-than-thou
left-wing approach again this is the
office
of Socratic method this is just getting
into assuming your your opponent
assuming anyone who would dare to
disagree with you as a terrible human
being and then let's fill up pages and
pages with ranting about what terrible
human beings they are and how
inconceivable their view of the world is
as if our own parents didn't eat meat as
if our own grandparents didn't eat meat
as if we ourselves in 99% of cases
didn't start out our lives eating meat
and believing these culture excuses if
it's just it's incomprehensible to us
that only only a psychopath could
disagree with us as vegan this is this
is really a pretty dark road to take
veganism down and as I was just trying
to say in closing this video I think
once you get on that road pretty quickly
you lose your capacity to recognize the
rationality of the people you disagree
with and then you lose the capacity to
have a productive disagreeing with them
hit me up